# Structure-Aware Image Generation

## Introduction
This is a project about Plants & AI, featuring multiple functionalities.


Therefore, based on this paper, the project offers the following features:

- Model Training: Train a model for plant sample generation based on the Pix2Pix framework.
- Mask Generation: Generate a series of 3D plant models using Blender and L-system, along with corresponding asks for 
leaves and branches.
- Data Management: Manage the data generated by Mask Generation, and preprocess it for use in the texturing module.
- Texturing: Combine the generated plant masks with the trained model to produce a set of realistic plant images, which 
can be used as training data for other plant-related tasks.

## Environment
This project is developed and tested inside a Docker container.

Docker:([nvidia/cuda:11.6.2-cudnn8-devel-ubuntu20.04](https://hub.docker.com/layers/nvidia/cuda/11.6.2-cudnn8-devel-ubuntu20.04/images/sha256-4eeb683bf695d431ecba6c949b4ee86c1cff61c2786c4de93b8df095f0852b78?context=explore))  
Python:3.8  
PyTorch:1.13.1+cu116 and torchvision 0.14.1+cu116

## Dependency
This project contains the modifications of [Segment Anything](https://github.com/facebookresearch/segment-anything), [MaskDINO](https://github.com/IDEA-Research/MaskDINO), [Grounding-DINO](https://github.com/IDEA-Research/GroundingDINO), and [pytorch-CycleGAN-and-pix2pix](https://github.com/junyanz/pytorch-CycleGAN-and-pix2pix) 
implementations. Please install all dependencies in your environment.

## Usage
We have built a GUI using Gradio, allowing you to perform each step of the workflow.
```
pip install gradio
python app.py
```
The GUI will run on the localhost:8888, you can change the port in app.py
```
if __name__ == '__main__':
    demo.launch(server_name="0.0.0.0", server_port=8888) # Change the port you want
```
Note: If you use GUI, we recommend keeping the default settings for all path-related parameters, as they have been 
adjusted to ensure seamless workflow between steps.

Alternatively, you can also execute each step via the command line. Detailed instructions for each step are provided in 
the corresponding README documents. 
